README.md, before:

# logzio-aws-metrics



This project allows you to collect Prometheus format metrics from Amazon CloudWatch with the CloudWatch exporter, and ship them to Logz.io using the OpenTelemetry collector.

We simplify the data export and collection for your metrics: You tell us the desired namespaces and regions you want to send your data from and we fetch the most relevant metrics to display in the Logz.io pre-built Infrastructure Monitoring dashboards.


### Overview

Within the applications included in the Docker compose file: 

1. The logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder writes your environment data to configuration files shared with both the CloudWatch exporter and the OpenTelemetry collector containers. 
    
    The configuration files specify: 

    * Which data is collected
    * Which data is exposed
    * To which endpoints the data is sent

1. The CloudWatch exporter and OpenTelemetry collector containers use the configuration files to export and move the metrics data to Logz.io as follows:

    a. Via API, the CloudWatch exporter fetches the requested metrics data collected by CloudWatch from the AWS services in your platform and exposes these metrics to the designated endpoint.

    b. The OpenTelemetry collector receives the data via a metrics pipeline and sends it to Logz.io for ingestion. 

![Prometheus-CloudFront-OpenTelemetry schema](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/metrics-prometheus/cloudwatch-docker-otel-4prom.png)

### **Note:** 
* Extra calls and charges on AWS API requests may be generated by this project. 

* You can track the number of AWS API requests with the `cloudwatch_requests_total` metric, which provides labels with the API name and namespace specification. For example : 
`cloudwatch_requests_total{action="getMetricStatistics",namespace="AWS/EC2",} 876.0`.

* For more information about the prom/cloudwatch-exporter cost, refer to the relevant [Prometheus documentation](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#cost) and to the [AWS cloudwatch API pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/).

#### Before you begin


##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1"
and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".


#### Collect CloudWatch metrics

To collect CloudWatch metrics, you'll deploy a docker compose file that uses containers with the following images:

* [otel/opentelemetry-collector](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/opentelemetry-collector)
* [prom/cloudwatch-exporter](https://hub.docker.com/r/prom/cloudwatch-exporter)
* [logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder](https://hub.docker.com/r/logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder)


##### Download the `docker-compose.yml` file.

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/logzio/logzio-aws-metrics/main/docker-compose.yml -o docker-compose.yml
```

##### Define the environment variables

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>> \
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>> \
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<<AWS_DEFAULT_REGION>> \
LOGZIO_REGION= <<LOGZIO_REGION>> \
LOGZIO_TOKEN=<<LOGZIO_TOKEN>> \
AWS_NAMESPACES=<<AWS_NAMESPACES>> \
SCRAPE_INTERVAL=<<SCRAPE_INTERVAL>> \
P8S_LOGZIO_NAME=<<P8S_LOGZIO_NAME>> \
docker-compose up
```


###### Set environment variables for the `logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder` container

| Environment variable | Description |
|---|---|
| AWS_DEFAULT_REGION (Required) | Your region's slug. You can find this in the AWS Console region menu (in the top menu, to the right).  **Note:** This is the region that you will collect metrics from. |
| LOGZIO_REGION (Required)| Your Logz.io region code. For example if your region is US, then your region code is `us`. You can find your region code here: https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html#regions-and-urls. |
| LOGZIO_TOKEN (Required)| Token for shipping metrics to your Logz.io account. Find it under Settings > Manage accounts. [_How do I look up my Metrics account token?_](/user-guide/accounts/finding-your-metrics-account-token/) |
| SCRAPE_INTERVAL (Required)| The time interval (in seconds) during which the Cloudwatch exporter retrieves metrics from Cloudwatch, and the Opentelemtry collector scrapes and sends the metrics to Logz.io. Default = 300.   **Note:** This value must be a multiple of 60.|
| AWS_NAMESPACES (Required) | Comma-separated list of namespaces of the metrics you want to collect. You can find a complete list of namespaces at [_AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html).   **Note:** This Environment variable is required unless you define the `CUSTOM_CONFIG_PATH` Environment variable |
| P8S_LOGZIO_NAME | The value of the `p8s_logzio_name` external label. This variable identifies which Prometheus environment the metrics arriving at Logz.io came from. Default = `logzio-cloudwatch-metrics`.  |
| CUSTOM_CONFIG_PATH | Path to your Cloudwatch exporter configuration file. For more information refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#configuration).  **Note:** Set the `period_seconds` parameter according to your `SCRAPE_INTERVAL`|
| CUSTOM_LISTENER | Set a custom URL to ship metrics to (for example, http://localhost:9200). This overrides the `LOGZIO_REGION` Environment variable. |

###### Set environment variables for the `prom/cloudwatch-exporter` container

| Environment variable | Description |
|---|---|
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID (Required)| Your IAM user's access key ID. |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY (Required)| Your IAM user's secret key. |

##### Run Docker.
Run the command: `docker-compose up`.

##### View service configurations.

You can view the exporter and collector configurations in the browser:

* CloudWatch exporter: [http://localhost:5001/config/cloudwatch](http://localhost:5001/config/cloudwatch)
* Opentelemtry collector: [http://localhost:5001/config/otel](http://localhost:5001/config/otel)

Commit message:

Add option to authenticate IAM role (#51)
* Add option to authenticate IAM role

* Update env variables in testing workflow

* Fix typo in test name

README.md, after:

# logzio-aws-metrics



This project allows you to collect Prometheus format metrics from Amazon CloudWatch with the CloudWatch exporter, and ship them to Logz.io using the OpenTelemetry collector.

We simplify the data export and collection for your metrics: You tell us the desired namespaces and regions you want to send your data from and we fetch the most relevant metrics to display in the Logz.io pre-built Infrastructure Monitoring dashboards.


### Overview

Within the applications included in the Docker compose file: 

1. The logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder writes your environment data to configuration files shared with both the CloudWatch exporter and the OpenTelemetry collector containers. 
    
    The configuration files specify: 

    * Which data is collected
    * Which data is exposed
    * To which endpoints the data is sent

1. The CloudWatch exporter and OpenTelemetry collector containers use the configuration files to export and move the metrics data to Logz.io as follows:

    a. Via API, the CloudWatch exporter fetches the requested metrics data collected by CloudWatch from the AWS services in your platform and exposes these metrics to the designated endpoint.

    b. The OpenTelemetry collector receives the data via a metrics pipeline and sends it to Logz.io for ingestion. 

![Prometheus-CloudFront-OpenTelemetry schema](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/metrics-prometheus/cloudwatch-docker-otel-4prom.png)

### **Note:** 
* Extra calls and charges on AWS API requests may be generated by this project. 

* You can track the number of AWS API requests with the `cloudwatch_requests_total` metric, which provides labels with the API name and namespace specification. For example : 
`cloudwatch_requests_total{action="getMetricStatistics",namespace="AWS/EC2",} 876.0`.

* For more information about the prom/cloudwatch-exporter cost, refer to the relevant [Prometheus documentation](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#cost) and to the [AWS cloudwatch API pricing page](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudwatch/pricing/).

#### Before you begin


##### Set up your IAM user

You'll need an [IAM user](https://console.aws.amazon.com/iam/home)
with the following permissions:

* `cloudwatch:ListMetrics`
* `cloudwatch:GetMetricStatistics`
* `tag:GetResources`

If you don't have one, set that up now.

Create an **Access key ID** and **Secret access key** for the IAM user,
and paste them in your text editor.

##### Get your metrics region

You'll need to specify the AWS region you're collecting metrics from.

![AWS region menu](https://dytvr9ot2sszz.cloudfront.net/logz-docs/aws/region-menu.png)

Find your region's slug in the region menu
(in the top menu, on the right side).

For example:
The slug for US East (N. Virginia)
is "us-east-1"
and the slug for Canada (Central) is "ca-central-1".


#### Collect CloudWatch metrics

To collect CloudWatch metrics, you'll deploy a docker compose file that uses containers with the following images:

* [otel/opentelemetry-collector](https://hub.docker.com/r/otel/opentelemetry-collector)
* [prom/cloudwatch-exporter](https://hub.docker.com/r/prom/cloudwatch-exporter)
* [logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder](https://hub.docker.com/r/logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder)


##### Download the `docker-compose.yml` file.

```
curl https://raw.githubusercontent.com/logzio/logzio-aws-metrics/main/docker-compose.yml -o docker-compose.yml
```

##### Define the environment variables

```
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=<<AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID>> \
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=<<AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY>> \
AWS_DEFAULT_REGION=<<AWS_DEFAULT_REGION>> \
LOGZIO_REGION= <<LOGZIO_REGION>> \
LOGZIO_TOKEN=<<LOGZIO_TOKEN>> \
AWS_NAMESPACES=<<AWS_NAMESPACES>> \
SCRAPE_INTERVAL=<<SCRAPE_INTERVAL>> \
P8S_LOGZIO_NAME=<<P8S_LOGZIO_NAME>> \
docker-compose up
```


###### Set environment variables for the `logzio/cloudwatch-config-builder` container

| Environment variable | Description |
|---|---|
| AWS_DEFAULT_REGION (Required) | Your region's slug. You can find this in the AWS Console region menu (in the top menu, to the right).  **Note:** This is the region that you will collect metrics from. |
| LOGZIO_REGION (Required)| Your Logz.io region code. For example if your region is US, then your region code is `us`. You can find your region code here: https://docs.logz.io/user-guide/accounts/account-region.html#regions-and-urls. |
| LOGZIO_TOKEN (Required)| Token for shipping metrics to your Logz.io account. Find it under Settings > Manage accounts. [_How do I look up my Metrics account token?_](/user-guide/accounts/finding-your-metrics-account-token/) |
| SCRAPE_INTERVAL (Required)| The time interval (in seconds) during which the Cloudwatch exporter retrieves metrics from Cloudwatch, and the Opentelemtry collector scrapes and sends the metrics to Logz.io. Default = 300.   **Note:** This value must be a multiple of 60.|
| AWS_NAMESPACES (Required) | Comma-separated list of namespaces of the metrics you want to collect. You can find a complete list of namespaces at [_AWS Services That Publish CloudWatch Metrics_](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonCloudWatch/latest/monitoring/aws-services-cloudwatch-metrics.html).   **Note:** This Environment variable is required unless you define the `CUSTOM_CONFIG_PATH` Environment variable |
| P8S_LOGZIO_NAME | The value of the `p8s_logzio_name` external label. This variable identifies which Prometheus environment the metrics arriving at Logz.io came from. Default = `logzio-cloudwatch-metrics`.  |
| CUSTOM_CONFIG_PATH | Path to your Cloudwatch exporter configuration file. For more information refer to the [documentation](https://github.com/prometheus/cloudwatch_exporter#configuration).  **Note:** Set the `period_seconds` parameter according to your `SCRAPE_INTERVAL`|
| CUSTOM_LISTENER | Set a custom URL to ship metrics to (for example, http://localhost:9200). This overrides the `LOGZIO_REGION` Environment variable. |
| AWS_ROLE_ARN | Your IAM role to assume. |

###### Set environment variables for the `prom/cloudwatch-exporter` container

| Environment variable | Description |
|---|---|
| AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID | Your IAM user's access key ID. |
| AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY | Your IAM user's secret key. |
| AWS_CREDENTIAL_PROFILES_FILE | The path to your shared credentials file. |
| AWS_PROFILE | Your profile name in shared credentials file. |

##### Run Docker.
Run the command: `docker-compose up`.

##### View service configurations.

You can view the exporter and collector configurations in the browser:

* CloudWatch exporter: [http://localhost:5001/config/cloudwatch](http://localhost:5001/config/cloudwatch)
* Opentelemtry collector: [http://localhost:5001/config/otel](http://localhost:5001/config/otel)
